Taskflow: adds xcoms custom backend section (#187)
xmartlabs/blog: _posts/2022-01-28-Airflow-Taskflow-a-must.md

---
layout: post
title: 4 reasons why you should use Airflow's Taskflow API

> date: '2022-02-25T10:00:00.000-03:00'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: '2022-02-22T10:00:00.000-03:00'
```

class PandasToS3XComBackend(BaseXCom):
  DATA_SCHEMA = "awesome-etl-s3://"

  @staticmethod
  def serialize_value(value):
    if isinstance(value, pd.DataFrame):
      from airflow.models import Variable

      bucket = Variable.get('awesome_etl_bucket')
      hook = S3Hook(Variable.get('awesome_etl_aws_connection_id'))
      file_name = f'data_{str(uuid.uuid4())}.json'
      key = f'{AWS_BUCKET_PREFIX}/{file_name}'

      with open(file_name, 'w') as file:
        value.to_csv(file)
      hook.load_file(file_name, key, bucket, replace=True)
      
      value = PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA + key
    
    return BaseXCom.serialize_value(value)

  @staticmethod
  def deserialize_value(result):
    result = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(result)
    if isinstance(result, str) and result.startswith(PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA):
      from airflow.models import Variable
      
      bucket = Variable.get('awesome_etl_bucket')
      hook = S3Hook(Variable.get('awesome_etl_aws_connection_id'))
      key = result.replace(PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA, "")
      file_name = hook.download_file(key, bucket, "/tmp")
      result = pd.read_csv(file_name)
    
    return result

>   def orm_deserialize_value(self):
>     result = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(self)
>     if isinstance(result, str) and result.startswith(PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA):
>       return result
>     PandasToS3XComBackend.deserialize_value(self)

Reviewer 2: Was this ok? If the value doesn't have the expected schema you were using the `PandasToS3XComBackend` which should fail to get the file from the bucket, right?

```suggestion
  def orm_deserialize_value(self):
    result = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(self)
    if isinstance(result, str) and result.startswith(PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA):
      return PandasToS3XComBackend.deserialize_value(self)

    result
```

```

Let quickly explain the above code. We have to implement two main methods for our custom backend:

> 1. `serialize` returns what's is stored in the XComs' backend. In our case we care about encoding only pandas `DataFrame` instances, otherwise delegate this responsibility to `BaseXCom`.

Reviewer 2: What is `serialize` here? I don't see a function or a variable with that name, is `serialize_value` what you are referring to? Similar doubt in the `deserialize` point

Author: there're mistakes when you copy and paste, you know, this was a mistake by not copying and pasting 😅, good catch!

2. on the other way around, `deserialize` takes a whatever `serialize` returned and returns back the original value. In our case, we determine whether the serialized value must be deserialized as a `pandas` `DataFrame` based on the custom URI schema we used in the serialization's result. Otherwise, we let `BaseXCom` do its job.
3. finally, optionally we can implement `orm_deserialize_value` to change how the serialized values are shown in Airflow's UI. 

> > For use, not implementing `orm_deserialize_value` ended up in Airflow's UI crashing. 

Author: `For us` I meant, but I'm removing this comment entirely because it was wrong.

> This give us a lot of extra freedom when we really need. Even though, in theory, we could save a big chunk of information this way, it’s not the idea to use XCom to support a data-driven pipeline. I mean, we should keep information backed up by XComs to small chunks as Airflow itself is not designed to move much information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This gives us a lot of extra freedom. Even though, in theory, we could save a big chunk of information this way, it’s not the idea to use XCom to support a data-driven pipeline. I mean, we should keep information backed up by XComs to small chunks as Airflow itself is not designed to move much information.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This gives us a lot of extra freedom when we really need it. Even though, in theory, we could save a big chunk of information this way, it's not the idea to use XCom to support a data-driven pipeline. I mean, we should keep information backed up by XComs to small chunks as Airflow itself isn't designed to move much information.
```

      file_name = f'data_{str(uuid.uuid4())}.json'
      key = f'{AWS_BUCKET_PREFIX}/{file_name}'

      with open(file_name, 'w') as file:
        value.to_csv(file)
      hook.load_file(file_name, key, bucket, replace=True)
      
      value = PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA + key
    
    return BaseXCom.serialize_value(value)

  @staticmethod
  def deserialize_value(result):
    result = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(result)
    if isinstance(result, str) and result.startswith(PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA):
      from airflow.models import Variable
      
      bucket = Variable.get('awesome_etl_bucket')
      hook = S3Hook(Variable.get('awesome_etl_aws_connection_id'))
      key = result.replace(PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA, "")
      file_name = hook.download_file(key, bucket, "/tmp")
      result = pd.read_csv(file_name)
    
    return result

  def orm_deserialize_value(self):
    result = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(self)
    if isinstance(result, str) and result.startswith(PandasToS3XComBackend.DATA_SCHEMA):
      result = f'{result} (serialized by "PandasToS3XComBackend")'
    return result
```

> Let quickly explain the above code. We have to implement two main methods for our custom backend:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's quickly explain the code above. There are two main methods we have to implement for our custom backend:
```

> 1. `serialize_value` returns what's stored in the XComs' database registry. In our example, we care only about encoding `pandas` `DataFrame` instances, in which case we serialize it as a CSV file and upload it to S3. Finally we return the path to that file in S3, so later, when we need to get the original value, we can download the appropriated file and deserialize its content as the original `pandas` `DataFrame`. Otherwise, we delegate the serialization job to `BaseXCom`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. `serialize_value` returns what's stored in the XComs' database registry. In our example, we only care about encoding `pandas` `DataFrame` instances, in which case we serialize it as a CSV file and upload it to S3. Finally, we return the path to that file in S3, so later, when we need to get the original value, we can download the correct file and deserialize its content as the original `pandas` `DataFrame`. Otherwise, we delegate the serialization job to `BaseXCom`.
```

> 2. on the other way around, `deserialize_value` takes whatever `serialize_value` returned and returns back the original value. In our case, we determine whether the serialized value must be deserialized as a `pandas` `DataFrame` based on the custom URI schema we used in the serialization's result. Otherwise, we let `BaseXCom` do its job.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. on the other hand, `deserialize_value` takes whatever `serialize_value` returned and returns back the original value. In our case, we determine whether the serialized value must be deserialized as a `pandas` `DataFrame` based on the custom URI schema we used in the serialization's result. Otherwise, we let `BaseXCom` do its job.
```

> 3. finally, optionally we can implement `orm_deserialize_value` to change how the serialized values are shown in Airflow's UI. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. finally, if we prefer, we can implement `orm_deserialize_value` to change how the serialized values are shown in Airflow's UI. 
```
